The programs in this package are necessary as a supplement to
the GNU binutils for MiNT.  Please read the file COPYING for
licensing.  See INSTALL for installation hints, and please
read README-alpha.

This package has been internationalized with GNU gettext 0.10.35.
Currently they are translations available for German only.  If you
volunteer to translate the messages into your native language you
are welcome to contact the author.  But please don't start at
once.  It is possible that a lot of messages have already been 
translated into your language.

If you want to use the internationalized versions of the programs
please proceed as follows:  First you should read the file 
ABOUT-NLS.  This gives you almost all the necessary information.
However, some special things should be observed on FreeMiNT
installations.  Atari computers traditionally use a non-standard
codeset.  A codeset describes the mapping between characters
(more exactly glyphs, i. e. the graphical outline of a certain
characters) and their corresponding numbers (i. e. the bytes
that they are encoded with in text files).  For "normal" ASCII
characters the Atari codeset is compatible to the standard
codeset (ISO-Latin-1 also known as ISO-8859-1), for special
characters like accented characters, characters with a cedille
or trema, it isn't (to be exact this only applies to 
Western European languages but in fact the Atari is not really
prepared for use with other than Western European languages).

If you are working in a terminal based environment everything
is probably set up correctly because the standard FreeMiNT 
distributions install an ISO-8859-1 font by default.  If you
are working under a graphical user interface (AES) this is 
not necessarily true.  As a consequence, internationalized 
messages may not display correctly.

What should you do?  Well, you will most probably use a terminal
emulator like TOSWIN or MiniWIN.  These programs usually allow
to use an alternative font (i. e. not the standard system font).
Try to find a suitable ISO-8859-1 fonts for use with these programs.
This makes sense not only for the mintbin package but for 
a lot of other important programs like more, less, info, or
man.  The most common names for the ISO-8859-1 fonts are
"latin08.fnt" and "latin16.fnt".  Try to find them on your system,
install them in your fonts directory (usually C:\GEMSYS) and
use them with your terminal emulator.

Setting your preferred language (not only for MiNTBin but for
all internationalized software packages) is best done in your 
/home/yourname/.profile resp. /home/yourname/.login file.  
These are the changes for .profile:

	LANGUAGE=xx
	export LANGUAGE

and these are the necessary changes for .login:

	setenv LANGUAGE xx

If you want to make these changes system-wide you should edit
"/etc/profile" instead of "~/.profile" and "/etc/csh.cshrc"
instead of ".login".  To set the language system-wide is not
really recommended.  Somebody may log into your machine and
may be very confused to see program messages in your language.
